# rasa-chatbot
This repository contains the Rasa chatbot project, which includes the bot's actions, training data, and PostgreSQL integration for the tracker store.

Tools to install : 
-Visual Studio Code or any preferred code editor.
-PostgreSQL for the database (version 12 or higher recommended).
-Rasa framework for chatbot.
-Python Version: 3.9
(Rasa 3.x is compatible with Python 3.8 and 3.9; use Python 3.9 for this project.)

1. Set Up Python Environment (do this after you install Python)
   1.1 make sure Python 3.9 installed and ensure it is added to your PATH
   1.2 create a virtual environment: python -m venv venv

2. How to install Rasa and Dependencies
   2.1 install Rasa: pip install rasa==3.6.0
   2.2 install other dependencies: pip install -r requirements.txt

3. Postgresql setup
   3.1 all the setup already have in code
   3.2 to see the data, login database using this (password :123456) it is under server PostgresSQL 14
   3.3 if cannot access to database, I think you need to load the data in your own database.

3.3.1 If no.3 doesnt work, you just download pgAdmin4. Set your own server named CHATBOT. Database named chatbot_gis and tables is under scheme so it is up to you which table are you gonna add.
3.3.2 The sql query as usual

additional notes : 
can refer to this link how to setup rasa framework and python in your laptop 
https://rasa.com/docs/rasa/installation/installing-rasa-open-source


This is made by two terminals okay so :-
5. How to run rasa chatbot in first terminal :
    5.1 go to your chatbot file path in terminal and activate the virtual environment by write "venv/Scripts/activate"
    5.2 write command rasa train
    5.3 after it finish train the chatbot, run command : rasa run actions

    Then second terminal
    (Make sure you put the path and active it first - same step as 5.1)
    5.4 to interact with chatbot in terminal, run command : rasa shell

6. How to run rasa chatbot on cesium :
  6.1 you need to have split terminal, first terminal run command : rasa run actions --port 5055, second terminal run command : rasa run --cors "*" --enable-api --port 5005
  6.2 then, run the cesium in apache tomcat
  @
  you can just go to TerriaJs and yarn start (but make sure all is well step up also)

I think thats all for now. Thank you!
   


   

